{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue10;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c3922;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww18440\viewh14480\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs32 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Milestone 5:\uc0\u8232 Evolution of visualizations and computational models. 
\f1\b0 Using feedback from your mentors and reflection on your progress, discoveries, and challenges thus far; refine and add specificity to your action plan. Begin identifying the structure and content of your project\'92s Data Story.
\f2\fs24 \cf0 \
\

\f1\fs32 \cf2 After looking at the data I have and the direction I want to go, I\'92ve determined several paths that I plan to pursue.
\f2\fs24 \cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs32 \cf2 \ul \ulc2 1. Meteorite location/Urban Areas\ulnone  \
	My plan is to identify the nearest urban area at the time of the meteorite\'92s impact or discovery.  This would require comparing the date of the fall/find to the closest cities in the historical urban list, and finding the closest one with a date before the meteorite.  The population and distance will both be collected for my weighting of the meteorite data.\
\
\ul 2. Meteorite location/land cover\
\ulnone 	My plan is to determine the land cover/land use of the location where the meteorite was found, and apply a scaled weight to the location.  These are the possible land uses in the dataset:\
\
	- Oceans/Water						- Cultivated Land\uc0\u8232 	- Pasture/Land used for Grazing 			- Ice \
	- Tundra								- Wooded Tundra\uc0\u8232 	- Boreal Forest							- Cool Conifer Forest \
	- Temperate Mixed Forest				- Temperate Deciduous Forest\uc0\u8232 	- Warm Mixed Forest 					- Grassland/Steppe \
	- Hot Desert							- Scrubland\uc0\u8232 	- Savanna							- Tropical Woodland \
	- Tropical Forest						- No Data Over Land \
\
My weighting system is still a work in progress, but I\'92m considering coming up with a \'93score\'94 for each meteorite, that will look something like the following:\
\
(population of nearest urban area) / (distance to urban area) * a value for land use type at site and its nearest neighbors\
\
\
\
This weighting will be used in calculating the probability of the next impact location.\
\
I believe I have all the data I need, now it\'92s just a matter of running the analysis.  One item I\'92m still considering:  Should I only look at falls, and not found meteorites, as falls guarantee the discovery was when it happened.  Finds could be 20 million years ago.  I guess it depends on if I\'92m more concerned about the time of the next impact or the place of the next impact.}