{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2577
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Bold;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red220\green161\blue13;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c89412\c68627\c3922;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab560
\pard\pardeftab560\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs40 \cf0 Capstone Notes\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f1\b0\fs26 \cf0 PSDS 4900\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Might be a good idea to work with public data sets!  Can be unclassified and not have to be NGA focused.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0

\f0\b \cf0 Highly encouraged 
\f1\b0 to have NGA mentor/stakeholder, but no longer required.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Imagine everything you\'92ve done in 2xxx and 3xxx classes.  Bring together like final projects from classes, but up a notch.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 DON\'92T GET POLISHED DATA!!!!  GET REALISTIC DATA SETS!   {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://DATA.GOV"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 DATA.GOV}}, work data, etc.  Data carpentry is part of the process.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Dr. Scott will help make sure that it hits all the marks as we meet\'85. ex. build a dashboard - will show how to build predictive analysis\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Data story - you\'92re building everything as you go through the process, not at the end.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Milestones 1 & 2 are email checkins.  \
\
Milestone 3/Deliverable 1 is a word document.  Due April 2nd.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Milestone 4 - Real world data - look around, if I had this other information that I can bring in\'85\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Milestone 5 - Refinement mode.   Polish visualizations.  Extensive validation testing.  Understanding how to tune parameters, etc.  Running models and visualizations so that you can get the best results.  Heavy lifting.  \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Milestone 6 - Training & verification.   5 & 6 are deep data science after the carpentry from 3 & 4. \
	Deliverable 2 - Build up from 4, 5, & 6.  A big chunk of the technical report.  Due June 11th.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Milestone 7 & 8 are cleaning up loose ends.  \
\
Milestone 7 - Make sure key aspects from data viz.\
	Deliverable 3 - first draft of data story or technical report.  Build out the deliverables to make a tech report.  In the final project, you present a slide deck\'85. so build it out here and then turn into presentation.  Due July 1.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Milestone 8 - Finalize data story.\
	Deliverable 4 - Due Aug 5.  Presentation on Aug 9-11.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Make sure to use GIT to track (gitlab or github) or NGA\'92s GIT repository.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Start building Milestone 3 now\'85. just keep sending updates to Dr. Scott as you work towards milestone 2.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Enrollment will happen 2nd week of August.  \
MU process document will come out after that.\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
\cf0 Meteorites impact database\
\pard\pardeftab560\slleading20\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/meteorite-landings"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/meteorite-landings}}\
\'93That sounds fun and hard\'94\
\'93what are things that limit you from here to there?  Even if it\'92s hard and the data doesn\'92t push you to that level, that\'92s okay.\'94\
\'93A really good project.\'94}