{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2578
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 Arial-BoldMT;
\f3\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue0;\red0\green0\blue10;
\red9\green79\blue209;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0\cname textColor;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c3922;
\cssrgb\c0\c40784\c85490;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{none\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'00;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid2}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 From: Matthew Younce <mwyounce@gmail.com>\
Subject: Milestone 4\
Date: April 30, 2021 at 7:22:38 AM EDT\
To: "Grant J. Scott" <scottgs@missouri.edu>, John Gutraj <John.gutraj@gmail.com>\
Cc: Matthew Younce <matthew.w.younce@nga.mil>\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 Dr. Scott and John,\
\
This is my report for Milestone 4.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f2\b\fs32 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec4 Milestone 4: Identify additional datasets to enhance the likelihood of success.\'a0
\f3\b0 Detail how each additional dataset augments the existing data repository and will contribute to the contextual, qualitative, and quantitative understanding of the problem domain. Additionally, basic exploratory modelling to assess the utility of the auxiliary datasets.\'a0
\f1\fs24 \cf3 \strokec3 \uc0\u8232 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf3 \
I have identified four datasets that will augment my analysis.\'a0\
\
The first is a
\f4\b  meteorite classification
\f1\b0 . \'a0I created a CSV by following from the \'93traditional classification scheme\'94 listed on wikipedia. \'a0I joined this table to the meteorites table using the recclass column. \'a0This will allow analysis of meteorites by several different classifications, to include the 3 main types of meteorites (iron, stony, and stony-iron), the presence or absence of chondrules (chondrite/achondrite), and the group (the letter labels from the recclass column).\
\
The second dataset is 
\f4\b landcover data
\f1\b0 . \'a0This is a dataset showing the changes in landcover from the preindustrial age (1700) and then in 50 year increments to 1950, followed by 1970 and 1990. \'a0This will be useful to determine if the area a meteorite was found at was in the middle of a jungle, desert, or populated area. \'a0I will have to determine the best method of weighting landcover data in my results. \'a0The data is a raster at the 1/2 degree level.\
\
The third dataset is 
\f4\b population and population density
\f1\b0 . \'a0This is only for 1990 and 1995, so I\'92m not sure if it will be of as much use as the landcover data. \'a0However it may show if an area is populated or not, and I can then use it to compare heavily urban areas to rural or even sparsely populated areas. \'a0Again, this is a raster at 1/2 degree level.\
\
The fourth dataset is a 
\f4\b historical urban population
\f1\b0  dataset from 3700 BC to AD 2000. \'a0This gives historical urban areas that may augment or be better than the population density. \'a0If I can geolocate each meteorite and find the closest urban area to the meteorite at that time in history, that may show how isolated the site is. \'a0This is a data frame of geocoords, years and populations.\
\
You can see my initial views of the datasets in this notebook:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/mwy912/capstone/blob/main/3_Additional_datasets_py.ipynb"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 https://github.com/mwy912/capstone/blob/main/3_Additional_datasets_py.ipynb}}\
\
I began with the meteorite classification data, and was able to join it to the meteorite data, creating a new table. \'a0That process is documented in this notebook:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/mwy912/capstone/blob/main/4_Meteorite_classification_py.ipynb"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 https://github.com/mwy912/capstone/blob/main/4_Meteorite_classification_py.ipynb}}\
\
I will continue working on the other datasets, and have set up notebooks to document their progress here:\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/mwy912/capstone/blob/main/5_Landcover_py.ipynb"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 https://github.com/mwy912/capstone/blob/main/5_Landcover_py.ipynb}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/mwy912/capstone/blob/main/6_Population_and_Population_Density_py.ipynb"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 https://github.com/mwy912/capstone/blob/main/6_Population_and_Population_Density_py.ipynb}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://github.com/mwy912/capstone/blob/main/7_Historical_Urban_Population_py.ipynb"}}{\fldrslt \cf5 \ul \ulc5 \strokec5 https://github.com/mwy912/capstone/blob/main/7_Historical_Urban_Population_py.ipynb}}\
\
I will keep you updated on my progress!\
\
Thanks,\
Matthew\
\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0
\ls2\ilvl0\cf3 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \outl0\strokewidth0 		\expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec3 \uc0\u8232 \u8232 \
}